Information SheetTitle of the project: Mental wellbeing in climate and environmental context (Case Study 4 of the PLANET4HEALTH project) – Barcelona Study SiteInstitution: Universitat Pompeu Fabra, University of Pretoria and South African Medical Research CouncilPrincipal Investigators: John Palmer (john.palmer@upf.edu), Linda Theron (linda.theron@up.ac.za), and Caradee Wright (Caradee.Wright@mrc.ac.za) Contact information: If you have questions you may contact the principal investigators at the email addresses listed above. If you have doubts, complaints, or questions about this study or about your rights as a research participant, you may contact UPF’s Institutional Committee for the Ethical Review of Projects (CIREP) by phone (+34 93 542 21 86) or by email (secretaria.cirep@upf.edu). CIREP is not part of the research team and will treat any information you send confidentially. Funding body: This project is funded by the European Union as part of the PLANET4HEALTH Project (https://planet4health.eu).Objectives of the project: The goal of this study is to learn more about how climate change and other changes in the environment affect people’s mental wellbeing. Methodology and participation: This study involves a mobile phone application called Space Mapper, which keeps track of where you spend time, and lets you share this information, if you chose to, with the researchers carrying out this study. It also involves a series of surveys. You can participate by installing Space Mapper on your phone and letting it track your locations for up to six months. You will then be given surveys every two weeks, in which you will be asked a series of questions about yourself and about your mental wellbeing. When you respond to the survey, you will have the opportunity to share the locations tracked by Space Mapper during the previous two weeks. You can choose which questions you answer and whether to share your locations. The survey will include questions about, among other things, your:* Race/ethnicity* Health * Sexual orientation* Location and mobilityInclusion criteria: To participate in this study you must be at least 18 years old and living in the Barcelona Metropolitan Area.Voluntary participation: Your participation in this study is on a voluntary basis and you may withdraw from the study at any time without having to justify your decision.Risks and benefits: It is not expected that anything you will be asked to do while participating in this study will pose a risk to your health. However, it is very important that you not interact with your mobile phone while driving or engaged in any activity that requires your attention. Using a mobile phone while driving can increase your risk of injury or death and to participate in the mobile phone component of this project, you must agree not to interact with the application or otherwise interact with your phone for this project while driving. Participation also involves some risk to your privacy because you will be asked to share information about where you spend time. However, this information will be kept confidential by the research team using encryption and standard data protection techniques. Participation will involve answering questions about your mental wellbeing and about climate change. In case these make you anxious or uncomfortable in any way, we will recommend a set of resources that you can turn to at the end of the survey. We cannot and do not guarantee that you will receive any benefits from this study.Compensation: Your participation will not be compensated by the research team but it may be compensated by the survey panel provider that sent you here.Data protection: In order to protect your privacy, we will not identify your data with your name, but rather with a code that will only be known to the research team members. In order to make your location data only accessible to research team members, this data will protected using end-to-end encryption and it will be stored with access control systems. In the event of data publication, only anonymous data will be published. Anonymized data may be hosted or published in a public repository. The data collected during the experiment cannot be used to identify you. If you would like your data to be deleted, you can request this by emailing the PIs and including in the email your participant UUID, which can be found in the Space Mapper application on the device you are using to collect it. Please note that the survey is being conducted with the help of Lime Survey and of the survey panel provider that you are working with. These companies are not affiliated with UPF, the University of Pretoria or the South African Medical Research Council, and they have their own privacy and security policies that you can find at their websites. In accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2016/679 (EU), we provide the following information:Data controller: Universitat Pompeu Fabra. C. de la Mercè, 12. 08002 Barcelona. Tel. +34 93 542 20 00. You can contact UPF’s Data Protection officer by sending an email to dpd@upf.edu.Purposes of the processing: Carrying out the above-mentioned research project. Personal data will be kept during the execution of the project and for two more years after its conclusion for scientific validation. If a payment is involved, the necessary data will be kept in accordance with applicable regulation.Legal basis: Your consent, which can be withdrawn at any time. Recipients: Your personal data will be processed by Universitat Pompeu Fabra, the University of Pretoria and the South African Medical Research Council. Data may be anonymized and published in an open science repository. Rights: You can request the deletion of your data and you may object to their processing and apply for its limitation by following the procedures described at www.upf.edu/web/proteccio-dades/drets and contacting the PI by email. For deletion of your data, you must provide the participant UUID that can be found in the Space Mapper application on the device that you used to collect it. You can contact UPF’s Data Protection officer (dpd@upf.edu) for any queries or if you feel that your rights are not properly respected. Should you not be satisfied, you may file a complaint with the Catalan Data Protection Authority (apdcat.gencat.cat).    
Informed Consent FormTitle of the project: Mental wellbeing in climate and environmental context (Case Study 4 of the PLANET4HEALTH project) – Barcelona Study SiteInstitution: Universitat Pompeu Fabra, University of Pretoria and South African Medical Research CouncilPrincipal Investigator: John Palmer (john.palmer@upf.edu), Linda Theron (linda.theron@up.ac.za), and Caradee Wright (Caradee.Wright@mrc.ac.za)I HEREBY CONFIRM that:? I have read the information sheet regarding the research project,? I have been able to formulate questions and I have received enough information on the project,? I fulfill the inclusion criteria, and I am between at least 18 years old.I UNDERSTAND that my participation is voluntary and that I can withdraw from or opt out of the study at any time without any need to justify my decision.? I GIVE MY CONSENT to participate in this study.? I GIVE MY CONSENT for my personal data to be processed by LimeSurvey GmbH, Survey Services & Consulting, a German company, under their terms and conditions (link to https://www.limesurvey.org/privacy-notice).? I GIVE MY CONSENT to being asked about by race/ethnicity.? I GIVE MY CONSENT to being asked about my health condition.   ? I GIVE MY CONSENT to being asked about my sexual orientation.? I GIVE MY CONSENT to being asked about my location and mobility.? I GIVE MY CONSENT to transferring my personal data to countries outside the European Economic Area.In accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2016/679 (EU), we provide the following information:Data controller: Universitat Pompeu Fabra. C. de la Mercè, 12. 08002 Barcelona. Tel. +34 93 542 20 00. You can contact UPF’s Data Protection officer by sending an email to dpd@upf.edu.Purposes of the processing: Carrying out the above-mentioned research project. Personal data will be kept during the execution of the project and for two more years after its conclusion for scientific validation. If a payment is involved, the necessary data will be kept in accordance with applicable regulation.Legal basis: Your consent, which can be withdrawn at any time. Recipients: Your personal data will be processed by Universitat Pompeu Fabra, the University of Pretoria and the South African Medical Research Council. Data may be anonymized and published in an open science repository. Rights: You can request the deletion of your data and you may object to their processing and apply for its limitation by following the procedures described at www.upf.edu/web/proteccio-dades/drets and contacting the PI by email. For deletion of your data, you must provide the participant UUID that can be found in the Space Mapper application on the device that you used to collect it. You can contact UPF’s Data Protection officer (dpd@upf.edu) for any queries or if you feel that your rights are not properly respected. Should you not be satisfied, you may file a complaint with the Catalan Data Protection Authority (apdcat.gencat.cat).   